docs/content/rc.md, before:

---
title: "Remote Control"
description: "Remote controlling rclone"
date: "2018-03-05"
---

# Remote controlling rclone #

If rclone is run with the `--rc` flag then it starts an http server
which can be used to remote control rclone.

**NB** this is experimental and everything here is subject to change!

## Supported parameters

#### --rc ####
Flag to start the http server listen on remote requests
      
#### --rc-addr=IP ####
IPaddress:Port or :Port to bind server to. (default "localhost:5572")

#### --rc-cert=KEY ####
SSL PEM key (concatenation of certificate and CA certificate)

#### --rc-client-ca=PATH ####
Client certificate authority to verify clients with

#### --rc-htpasswd=PATH ####
htpasswd file - if not provided no authentication is done

#### --rc-key=PATH ####
SSL PEM Private key

#### --rc-max-header-bytes=VALUE ####
Maximum size of request header (default 4096)

#### --rc-user=VALUE ####
User name for authentication.

#### --rc-pass=VALUE ####
Password for authentication.

#### --rc-realm=VALUE ####
Realm for authentication (default "rclone")

#### --rc-server-read-timeout=DURATION ####
Timeout for server reading data (default 1h0m0s)

#### --rc-server-write-timeout=DURATION ####
Timeout for server writing data (default 1h0m0s)

## Accessing the remote control via the rclone rc command

Rclone itself implements the remote control protocol in its `rclone
rc` command.

You can use it like this

```
$ rclone rc rc/noop param1=one param2=two
{
	"param1": "one",
	"param2": "two"
}
```

Run `rclone rc` on its own to see the help for the installed remote
control commands.

## Supported commands

### cache/expire: Purge a remote from cache

Purge a remote from the cache backend. Supports either a directory or a file.
Params:
  - remote = path to remote (required)
  - withData = true/false to delete cached data (chunks) as well (optional)

### vfs/forget: Forget files or directories in the directory cache.

This forgets the paths in the directory cache causing them to be
re-read from the remote when needed.

If no paths are passed in then it will forget all the paths in the
directory cache.

    rclone rc vfs/forget

Otherwise pass files or dirs in as file=path or dir=path.  Any
parameter key starting with file will forget that file and any
starting with dir will forget that dir, eg

    rclone rc vfs/forget file=hello file2=goodbye dir=home/junk

### rc/noop: Echo the input to the output parameters

This echoes the input parameters to the output parameters for testing
purposes.  It can be used to check that rclone is still alive and to
check that parameter passing is working properly.

### rc/error: This returns an error

This returns an error with the input as part of its error string.
Useful for testing error handling.

### rc/list: List all the registered remote control commands

This lists all the registered remote control commands as a JSON map in
the commands response.

## Accessing the remote control via HTTP

Rclone implements a simple HTTP based protocol.

Each endpoint takes an JSON object and returns a JSON object or an
error.  The JSON objects are essentially a map of string names to
values.

All calls must made using POST.

The input objects can be supplied using URL parameters, POST
parameters or by supplying "Content-Type: application/json" and a JSON
blob in the body.  There are examples of these below using `curl`.

The response will be a JSON blob in the body of the response.  This is
formatted to be reasonably human readable.

If an error occurs then there will be an HTTP error status (usually
400) and the body of the response will contain a JSON encoded error
object.

### Using POST with URL parameters only

```
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?potato=1&sausage=2'
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"sausage": "2"
}
```

Here is what an error response looks like:

```
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/error/?potato=1&sausage=2'
```

```
{
	"error": "arbitrary error on input map[potato:1 sausage:2]",
	"input": {
		"potato": "1",
		"sausage": "2"
	}
}
```

Note that curl doesn't return errors to the shell unless you use the `-f` option

```
$ curl -f -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/error/?potato=1&sausage=2'
curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 400 Bad Request
$ echo $?
22
```

### Using POST with a form

```
curl --data "potato=1" --data "sausage=2" http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"sausage": "2"
}
```

Note that you can combine these with URL parameters too with the POST
parameters taking precedence.

```
curl --data "potato=1" --data "sausage=2" "http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?rutabaga=3&sausage=4"
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"rutabaga": "3",
	"sausage": "4"
}

```

### Using POST with a JSON blob

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"potato":2,"sausage":1}' http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/
```

response

```
{
	"password": "xyz",
	"username": "xyz"
}
```

This can be combined with URL parameters too if required.  The JSON
blob takes precedence.

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"potato":2,"sausage":1}' 'http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?rutabaga=3&potato=4'
```

```
{
	"potato": 2,
	"rutabaga": "3",
	"sausage": 1
}
```

Commit message:

fs/accounting: add remote control of bwlimit

docs/content/rc.md, after:

---
title: "Remote Control"
description: "Remote controlling rclone"
date: "2018-03-05"
---

# Remote controlling rclone #

If rclone is run with the `--rc` flag then it starts an http server
which can be used to remote control rclone.

**NB** this is experimental and everything here is subject to change!

## Supported parameters

#### --rc ####
Flag to start the http server listen on remote requests
      
#### --rc-addr=IP ####
IPaddress:Port or :Port to bind server to. (default "localhost:5572")

#### --rc-cert=KEY ####
SSL PEM key (concatenation of certificate and CA certificate)

#### --rc-client-ca=PATH ####
Client certificate authority to verify clients with

#### --rc-htpasswd=PATH ####
htpasswd file - if not provided no authentication is done

#### --rc-key=PATH ####
SSL PEM Private key

#### --rc-max-header-bytes=VALUE ####
Maximum size of request header (default 4096)

#### --rc-user=VALUE ####
User name for authentication.

#### --rc-pass=VALUE ####
Password for authentication.

#### --rc-realm=VALUE ####
Realm for authentication (default "rclone")

#### --rc-server-read-timeout=DURATION ####
Timeout for server reading data (default 1h0m0s)

#### --rc-server-write-timeout=DURATION ####
Timeout for server writing data (default 1h0m0s)

## Accessing the remote control via the rclone rc command

Rclone itself implements the remote control protocol in its `rclone
rc` command.

You can use it like this

```
$ rclone rc rc/noop param1=one param2=two
{
	"param1": "one",
	"param2": "two"
}
```

Run `rclone rc` on its own to see the help for the installed remote
control commands.

## Supported commands

### core/bwlimit: Set the bandwidth limit.

This sets the bandwidth limit to that passed in.

Eg

    rclone core/bwlimit rate=1M
    rclone core/bwlimit rate=off

### cache/expire: Purge a remote from cache

Purge a remote from the cache backend. Supports either a directory or a file.
Params:

  - remote = path to remote (required)
  - withData = true/false to delete cached data (chunks) as well (optional)

### vfs/forget: Forget files or directories in the directory cache.

This forgets the paths in the directory cache causing them to be
re-read from the remote when needed.

If no paths are passed in then it will forget all the paths in the
directory cache.

    rclone rc vfs/forget

Otherwise pass files or dirs in as file=path or dir=path.  Any
parameter key starting with file will forget that file and any
starting with dir will forget that dir, eg

    rclone rc vfs/forget file=hello file2=goodbye dir=home/junk

### rc/noop: Echo the input to the output parameters

This echoes the input parameters to the output parameters for testing
purposes.  It can be used to check that rclone is still alive and to
check that parameter passing is working properly.

### rc/error: This returns an error

This returns an error with the input as part of its error string.
Useful for testing error handling.

### rc/list: List all the registered remote control commands

This lists all the registered remote control commands as a JSON map in
the commands response.

## Accessing the remote control via HTTP

Rclone implements a simple HTTP based protocol.

Each endpoint takes an JSON object and returns a JSON object or an
error.  The JSON objects are essentially a map of string names to
values.

All calls must made using POST.

The input objects can be supplied using URL parameters, POST
parameters or by supplying "Content-Type: application/json" and a JSON
blob in the body.  There are examples of these below using `curl`.

The response will be a JSON blob in the body of the response.  This is
formatted to be reasonably human readable.

If an error occurs then there will be an HTTP error status (usually
400) and the body of the response will contain a JSON encoded error
object.

### Using POST with URL parameters only

```
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?potato=1&sausage=2'
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"sausage": "2"
}
```

Here is what an error response looks like:

```
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/error/?potato=1&sausage=2'
```

```
{
	"error": "arbitrary error on input map[potato:1 sausage:2]",
	"input": {
		"potato": "1",
		"sausage": "2"
	}
}
```

Note that curl doesn't return errors to the shell unless you use the `-f` option

```
$ curl -f -X POST 'http://localhost:5572/rc/error/?potato=1&sausage=2'
curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 400 Bad Request
$ echo $?
22
```

### Using POST with a form

```
curl --data "potato=1" --data "sausage=2" http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"sausage": "2"
}
```

Note that you can combine these with URL parameters too with the POST
parameters taking precedence.

```
curl --data "potato=1" --data "sausage=2" "http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?rutabaga=3&sausage=4"
```

Response

```
{
	"potato": "1",
	"rutabaga": "3",
	"sausage": "4"
}

```

### Using POST with a JSON blob

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"potato":2,"sausage":1}' http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/
```

response

```
{
	"password": "xyz",
	"username": "xyz"
}
```

This can be combined with URL parameters too if required.  The JSON
blob takes precedence.

```
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"potato":2,"sausage":1}' 'http://localhost:5572/rc/noop/?rutabaga=3&potato=4'
```

```
{
	"potato": 2,
	"rutabaga": "3",
	"sausage": 1
}
```
